ADCY1
Rare Disease Papers:  8
Non-Rare Disease Papers:  8
Other Papers:  34
For all "other papers"
Identification of Signatures of Selection for Litter Size and Pubertal Initiation in Two Sheep Populations.
Illuminating (HTLV-1)-induced adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma transcriptomic signature: A systems virology approach.
Compartmentalized crosstalk of CFTR and TMEM16A (ANO1) through EPAC1 and ADCY1.
Downregulated INHBB in endometrial tissue of recurrent implantation failure patients impeded decidualization through the ADCY1/cAMP signalling pathway.
Identification of the Key Immune Cells and Genes for the Diagnostics and Therapeutics of Meningioma.
Differential DNA methylation analysis reveals key genes in Chinese Qingyu and Landrace pigs.
Genome-wide analysis identify novel germline genetic variations in 
Coriandrum sativum and Lavandula angustifolia Essential Oils: Chemical Composition and Activity on Central Nervous System.
Ontogeny-related pharmacogene changes in the pediatric liver transcriptome.
ETn insertion in the mouse Adcy1 gene: transcriptional and phylogenetic analyses.
Glomerular podocytes express type 1 adenylate cyclase: inactivation results in susceptibility to proteinuria.
Overexpression of type-1 adenylyl cyclase in mouse forebrain enhances recognition memory and LTP.
Screening of tumor grade-related mRNAs and lncRNAs for Esophagus Squamous Cell Carcinoma.
Histone deacetylase inhibition by MS-275 potentiates glucose-stimulated insulin secretion without affecting glucose oxidation.
CUX2 prevents the malignant progression of gliomas by enhancing ADCY1 transcription.
Dopamine D₄ receptor activation controls circadian timing of the adenylyl cyclase 1/cyclic AMP signaling system in mouse retina.
Circular RNA Arhgap12 modulates doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity by sponging miR-135a-5p.
Identification of a myofibroblast-specific expression signature in skin wounds.
T5224, RSPO2 and AZD5363 are novel drugs against functional pituitary adenoma.
LncRNA H19 acts as miR-301a-3p sponge to alleviate lung injury in mice with sepsis by regulating Adcy1.
Shared Ancestry and Signatures of Recent Selection in Gotland Sheep.
Strategies to safely target widely expressed soluble adenylyl cyclase for contraception.
Circadian rhythm of contrast sensitivity is regulated by a dopamine-neuronal PAS-domain protein 2-adenylyl cyclase 1 signaling pathway in retinal ganglion cells.
Ca
Ca
Expression and functions of adenylyl cyclases in the CNS.
Genome-wide DNA methylation analysis in Chinese Chenghua and Yorkshire pigs.
LncRNA-XR_002792574.1-mediated ceRNA network reveals potential biomarkers in myopia-induced retinal ganglion cell damage.
Soluble adenylyl cyclase, the cell-autonomous member of the family.
Mechanism of total glucosides of paeony in hypoxia/reoxygenation-induced cardiomyocyte pyroptosis.
Identification and characterization of extrachromosomal circular DNA in alcohol induced osteonecrosis of femoral head.
Circ-LTBP1 is involved in doxorubicin-induced intracellular toxicity in cardiomyocytes via miR-107/ADCY1 signal.
Opposite regulation of glycogen metabolism by cAMP produced in the cytosol and at the plasma membrane.
Reduced activity of adenylyl cyclase 1 attenuates morphine induced hyperalgesia and inflammatory pain in mice.
extra pmid:  35793187
extra pmid:  33344693
extra pmid:  33421489
extra pmid:  36938448
extra pmid:  34692515
extra pmid:  30800055
extra pmid:  28218269
For all "correct papers"
