Cluster: 0, Gene: JPH2, PMID: 29540472
Title: Prevalence of Pathogenic Gene Mutations and Prognosis Do Not Differ in Isolated Left Ventricular Dysfunction Compared With Dilated Cardiomyopathy.
Abstract: Genetic evaluation is recommended in patients with unexplained dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM), but its diagnostic yield and prognostic relevance in unexplained isolated left ventricular dysfunction (LVdys) is unknown.

Cluster: 1, Gene: FBN2, PMID: 35360850
Title: Identification of Novel FBN2 Variants in a Cohort of Congenital Contractural Arachnodactyly.
Abstract: Congenital contractural arachnodactyly (CCA) is a rare autosomal dominant disorder of connective tissue characterized by crumpled ears, arachnodactyly, camptodactyly, large joint contracture, and kyphoscoliosis. The nature course of CCA has not been well-described. We aim to decipher the genetic and phenotypic spectrum of CCA. The cohort was enrolled in Beijing Jishuitan Hospital and Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Beijing, China, based on Deciphering disorders Involving Scoliosis and COmorbidities (DISCO) study (http://www.discostudy.org/). Exome sequencing was performed on patients' blood DNA. A recent published CCA scoring system was validated in our cohort. Seven novel variants and three previously reported FBN2 variants were identified through exome sequencing. Two variants outside of the neonatal region of FBN2 gene were found. The phenotypes were comparable between patients in our cohort and previous literature, with arachnodactyly, camptodactyly and large joints contractures found in almost all patients. All patients eligible for analysis were successfully classified into likely CCA based on the CCA scoring system. Furthermore, we found a double disease-causing heterozygous variant of FBN2 and ANKRD11 in a patient with blended phenotypes consisting of CCA and KBG syndrome. The identification of seven novel variants broadens the mutational and phenotypic spectrum of CCA and may provide implications for genetic counseling and clinical management.

Cluster: 2, Gene: DNAJC7, PMID: 37870677
Title: Rare DNAJC7 Variants May Play a Minor Role in Chinese Patients with ALS.
Abstract: DnaJ heat shock protein family member C7 gene (DNAJC7) has been identified as a genetic risk factor for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). In our study, we aimed to screen for rare variants in DNAJC7 in a large cohort of Chinese ALS patients, and investigate the genotype-phenotype correlation of DNAJC7 in ALS. Four (0.19%) variants of DNAJC7 with minor allele frequency (MAF) < 0.1% among 2124 patients were identified, including 1 protein-truncating variant and 3 missense variants, all of which were predicted to be damaging. The patients carrying variants of DNAJC7 in our cohort tented to have a limb onset and a relatively slow disease progression. However, burden analysis did not show an enrichment of rare damaging variants in ALS patients compared to controls. Further analysis involving diverse regions and larger sample size is necessary to elucidate the role of DNAJC7 in the pathogenicity of ALS.

Cluster: 3, Gene: SLFN14, PMID: 36790527
Title: Ribosome dysfunction underlies SLFN14-related thrombocytopenia.
Abstract: Pathogenic missense variants in SLFN14, which encode an RNA endoribonuclease protein that regulates ribosomal RNA (rRNA) degradation, are known to cause inherited thrombocytopenia (TP) with impaired platelet aggregation and adenosine triphosphate secretion. Despite mild laboratory defects, the patients displayed an obvious bleeding phenotype. However, the function of SLFN14 in megakaryocyte (MK) and platelet biology remains unknown. This study aimed to model the disease in an immortalized MK cell line (imMKCL) and to characterize the platelet transcriptome in patients with the SLFN14 K219N variant. MK derived from heterozygous and homozygous SLFN14 K219N imMKCL and stem cells of blood from patients mainly presented with a defect in proplatelet formation and mitochondrial organization. SLFN14-defective platelets and mature MK showed signs of rRNA degradation; however, this was absent in undifferentiated imMKCL cells and granulocytes. Total platelet RNA was sequenced in 2 patients and 19 healthy controls. Differential gene expression analysis yielded 2999 and 2888 significantly (|log2 fold change| >1, false discovery rate <0.05) up- and downregulated genes, respectively. Remarkably, these downregulated genes were not enriched in any biological pathway, whereas upregulated genes were enriched in pathways involved in (mitochondrial) translation and transcription, with a significant upregulation of 134 ribosomal protein genes (RPGs). The upregulation of mitochondrial RPGs through increased mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) signaling in SLFN14 K219N MK seems to be a compensatory response to rRNA degradation. mTORC1 inhibition with rapamycin resulted in further enhanced rRNA degradation in SLFN14 K219N MK. Taken together, our study indicates dysregulation of mTORC1 coordinated ribosomal biogenesis is the disease mechanism for SLFN14-related TP.

