Cluster: 0, Gene: RNASEH1, PMID: 26094573
Title: RNASEH1 Mutations Impair mtDNA Replication and Cause Adult-Onset Mitochondrial Encephalomyopathy.
Abstract: Chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia (CPEO) is common in mitochondrial disorders and is frequently associated with multiple mtDNA deletions. The onset is typically in adulthood, and affected subjects can also present with general muscle weakness. The underlying genetic defects comprise autosomal-dominant or recessive mutations in several nuclear genes, most of which play a role in mtDNA replication. Next-generation sequencing led to the identification of compound-heterozygous RNASEH1 mutations in two singleton subjects and a homozygous mutation in four siblings. RNASEH1, encoding ribonuclease H1 (RNase H1), is an endonuclease that is present in both the nucleus and mitochondria and digests the RNA component of RNA-DNA hybrids. Unlike mitochondria, the nucleus harbors a second ribonuclease (RNase H2). All affected individuals first presented with CPEO and exercise intolerance in their twenties, and these were followed by muscle weakness, dysphagia, and spino-cerebellar signs with impaired gait coordination, dysmetria, and dysarthria. Ragged-red and cytochrome c oxidase (COX)-negative fibers, together with impaired activity of various mitochondrial respiratory chain complexes, were observed in muscle biopsies of affected subjects. Western blot analysis showed the virtual absence of RNase H1 in total lysate from mutant fibroblasts. By an in vitro assay, we demonstrated that altered RNase H1 has a reduced capability to remove the RNA from RNA-DNA hybrids, confirming their pathogenic role. Given that an increasing amount of evidence indicates the presence of RNA primers during mtDNA replication, this result might also explain the accumulation of mtDNA deletions and underscores the importance of RNase H1 for mtDNA maintenance.

Cluster: 1, Gene: SARS1, PMID: 34570399
Title: A bi-allelic loss-of-function SARS1 variant in children with neurodevelopmental delay, deafness, cardiomyopathy, and decompensation during fever.
Abstract: Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases (aaRS) are ubiquitously expressed enzymes responsible for ligating amino acids to their cognate tRNA molecules through an aminoacylation reaction. The resulting aminoacyl-tRNA is delivered to ribosome elongation factors to participate in protein synthesis. Seryl-tRNA synthetase (SARS1) is one of the cytosolic aaRSs and catalyzes serine attachment to tRNASer . SARS1 deficiency has already been associated with moderate intellectual disability, ataxia, muscle weakness, and seizure in one family. We describe here a new clinical presentation including developmental delay, central deafness, cardiomyopathy, and metabolic decompensation during fever leading to death, in a consanguineous Turkish family, with biallelic variants (c.638G>T, p.(Arg213Leu)) in SARS1. This missense variant was shown to lead to protein instability, resulting in reduced protein level and enzymatic activity. Our results describe a new clinical entity and expand the clinical and mutational spectrum of SARS1 and aaRS deficiencies.

Cluster: 2, Gene: LRRC10, PMID: 26017719
Title: Prevalence and spectrum of LRRC10 mutations associated with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy.
Abstract: Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is the most common form of primary myocardial disease. It is the most common cause of chronic congestive heart failure and the most frequent reason for heart transplantation in young adults. There is increasing evidence demonstrating that genetic defects are involved in the pathogenesis of idiopathic DCM. Recent studies have shown that genetically defective LRRC10 predisposes animals to DCM. However, the association of LRRC10 with DCM in humans has not been reported. In the current study, the whole coding region and flanking splice junction sites of the LRRC10 gene were sequenced in 220 unrelated patients with idiopathic DCM. The available relatives of the index patients harboring identified mutations and 200 unrelated ethnically matched healthy individuals used as controls were also genotyped for LRRC10. The functional effect of the LRRC10 mutations was analyzed in silico. As a result, two novel heterozygous LRRC10 mutations, p.L41V and p.L163I, were identified in two families with DCM, respectively, with a mutational prevalence of ~0.91%. Genetic analyses of the pedigrees showed that in each family, the mutation co-segregated with DCM was transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait with complete penetrance. The missense mutations were absent in 400 control chromosomes and the altered amino acids were completely conserved evolutionarily across various species. Functional analysis in silico indicated that the LRRC10 mutations were causative. This study firstly reports the association of LRRC10 mutations with enhanced susceptibility to DCM in humans, which provides novel insight into the molecular mechanism underpinning DCM, and contributes to the development of novel prophylactic and therapeutic strategies for DCM.

Cluster: 3, Gene: FBN2, PMID: 32702406
Title: Based on a cohort of 52,879 microarrays, recurrent intragenic FBN2 deletion encompassing exons 1-8 does not cause Beals syndrome.
Abstract: Congenital contractural arachnodactyly (CCA) is a rare connective tissue disorder, associated with heterozygous mutations in the FBN2 gene. The objective of this study was to evaluate the prevalence of an intragenic deletion encompassing exons 1-8 of FBN2 gene in Israeli population.

