Cluster: 0, Gene: SLFN14, PMID: 29678925
Title: Role of the novel endoribonuclease SLFN14 and its disease-causing mutations in ribosomal degradation.
Abstract: Platelets are anucleate and mostly ribosome-free cells within the bloodstream, derived from megakaryocytes within bone marrow and crucial for cessation of bleeding at sites of injury. Inherited thrombocytopenias are a group of disorders characterized by a low platelet count and are frequently associated with excessive bleeding. SLFN14 is one of the most recently discovered genes linked to inherited thrombocytopenia where several heterozygous missense mutations in SLFN14 were identified to cause defective megakaryocyte maturation and platelet dysfunction. Yet, SLFN14 was recently described as a ribosome-associated protein resulting in rRNA and ribosome-bound mRNA degradation in rabbit reticulocytes. To unveil the cellular function of SLFN14 and the link between SLFN14 and thrombocytopenia, we examined SLFN14 (WT/mutants) in in vitro models. Here, we show that all SLFN14 variants colocalize with ribosomes and mediate rRNA endonucleolytic degradation. Compared to SLFN14 WT, expression of mutants is dramatically reduced as a result of post-translational degradation due to partial misfolding of the protein. Moreover, all SLFN14 variants tend to form oligomers. These findings could explain the dominant negative effect of heterozygous mutation on SLFN14 expression in patients' platelets. Overall, we suggest that SLFN14 could be involved in ribosome degradation during platelet formation and maturation.

Cluster: 1, Gene: SARS1, PMID: 35790048
Title: WARS1 and SARS1: Two tRNA synthetases implicated in autosomal recessive microcephaly.
Abstract: Aminoacylation of transfer RNA (tRNA) is a key step in protein biosynthesis, carried out by highly specific aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases (ARSs). ARSs have been implicated in autosomal dominant and autosomal recessive human disorders. Autosomal dominant variants in tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetase 1 (WARS1) are known to cause distal hereditary motor neuropathy and Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease, but a recessively inherited phenotype is yet to be clearly defined. Seryl-tRNA synthetase 1 (SARS1) has rarely been implicated in an autosomal recessive developmental disorder. Here, we report five individuals with biallelic missense variants in WARS1 or SARS1, who presented with an overlapping phenotype of microcephaly, developmental delay, intellectual disability, and brain anomalies. Structural mapping showed that the SARS1 variant is located directly within the enzyme's active site, most likely diminishing activity, while the WARS1 variant is located in the N-terminal domain. We further characterize the identified WARS1 variant by showing that it negatively impacts protein abundance and is unable to rescue the phenotype of a CRISPR/Cas9 wars1 knockout zebrafish model. In summary, we describe two overlapping autosomal recessive syndromes caused by variants in WARS1 and SARS1, present functional insights into the pathogenesis of the WARS1-related syndrome and define an emerging disease spectrum: ARS-related developmental disorders with or without microcephaly.

Cluster: 2, Gene: MLH3, PMID: 26296701
Title: Exome sequencing reveals frequent deleterious germline variants in cancer susceptibility genes in women with invasive breast cancer undergoing neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
Abstract: When sequencing blood and tumor samples to identify targetable somatic variants for cancer therapy, clinically relevant germline variants may be uncovered. We evaluated the prevalence of deleterious germline variants in cancer susceptibility genes in women with breast cancer referred for neoadjuvant chemotherapy and returned clinically actionable results to patients. Exome sequencing was performed on blood samples from women with invasive breast cancer referred for neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Germline variants within 142 hereditary cancer susceptibility genes were filtered and reviewed for pathogenicity. Return of results was offered to patients with deleterious variants in actionable genes if they were not aware of their result through clinical testing. 124 patients were enrolled (median age 51) with the following subtypes: triple negative (n = 43, 34.7%), HER2+ (n = 37, 29.8%), luminal B (n = 31, 25%), and luminal A (n = 13, 10.5%). Twenty-eight deleterious variants were identified in 26/124 (21.0%) patients in the following genes: ATM (n = 3), BLM (n = 1), BRCA1 (n = 4), BRCA2 (n = 8), CHEK2 (n = 2), FANCA (n = 1), FANCI (n = 1), FANCL (n = 1), FANCM (n = 1), FH (n = 1), MLH3 (n = 1), MUTYH (n = 2), PALB2 (n = 1), and WRN (n = 1). 121/124 (97.6%) patients consented to return of research results. Thirteen (10.5%) had actionable variants, including four that were returned to patients and led to changes in medical management. Deleterious variants in cancer susceptibility genes are highly prevalent in patients with invasive breast cancer referred for neoadjuvant chemotherapy undergoing exome sequencing. Detection of these variants impacts medical management.

Cluster: 3, Gene: FBN2, PMID: 9714438
Title: Clustering of FBN2 mutations in patients with congenital contractural arachnodactyly indicates an important role of the domains encoded by exons 24 through 34 during human development.
Abstract: Congenital contractural arachnodactyly (CCA) is an autosomal dominant condition phenotypically related to Marfan syndrome (MFS). CCA is caused by mutations in FBN2, whereas MFS results from mutations in FBN1. FBN2 mRNA extracted from 12 unrelated CCA patient cell strains was screened for mutations, and FBN2 mutations were identified in six of these samples. All of the identified FBN2 mutations cluster in a limited region of the gene, a region where mutations in FBN1 produce the severe, congenital form of MFS (so-called neonatal MFS). Furthermore, three of the identified mutations occur in the FBN2 locations exactly corresponding to FBN1 mutations that have been reported in cases of neonatal MFS. These mutations indicate that this central region of both of the fibrillins plays a critical role in human embryogenesis. The limited region of FBN2 that can be mutated to cause CCA may also help to explain the rarity of CCA compared to MFS.

